---
layout: post
title: 
---
<opening><dateline>Wed. Aug. 1, 1945</dateline>

<persName>Len</persName> darling,

Received your letter of July 20 + one from Jack today. had a good night's sleep last night and awoke early this morning quite refreshed- It was cloudy all day and poured a few times.

This morning after sick call I went with the Dr's son, a young fellow + also a Dr., to see one of his patients who had typhoid fever. He was an old man + in addition to his typhoid fever, had heart trouble. The Dr. + his son are the only doctors available for a radius of many miles and now that there is no gasoline available, they make their calls on a bicycle travelling 25 or more miles over diret roads, winding + steep hills - Their medicine is so ingerior to ours - they are years behind us in therapy + medication and there little doctors in these small towns haven't been informed of any progress in medicine for the past year or so and there have been no medical publications - They are particularly backward in preventive medicine + public health as vaccinations, antitoxins, serums, purification of water + pasteurization of milk - I am going to get some antitoxin for the doctor so that they can immunize the contacts. 

This afternoon I went into Linz with Irv- I turned in what money was left from the pay roll yesterday and now it's in the hands of the finance Officer, thus ending my responsibility. After that we planned to go to the baseball game but it so happened that there was no game scheduled until Friday. Rather than waste an afternoon as long as we were in Linz, Irv + I went to a matinee "Sing Your Way Home" with Jack Haley. fair- On our way home we got caught in a <pb> downpour + were a little damp when we got home. It takes about 3/4-1 hour to get to Linz which is 30 miles away.

Tonight we bade farewell to Lt. Frank Smiles, my MAC Officer who is leaving tomorrow for the 103 Inf. Div. and home perhaps in a month. Can't say that Irv, Rick or I were particularly impressed with him and his departure caused no sadness - The past few days he has been "shacking up" with some "frauleins" and he is to be married as his girl can come to America. Len- you can't begin to realize what's going on here - Everybody has a fraulein- it's the accepted thing. I discovered today that when this battalion moved from Leonfelden the officers and enlisted men together took a total of 120 frauleins with them - Incredible, you say, and I would say the same if I were home but  iknow it's so cause I'm here to witness it - Irv + I are about the only officers in the whole battalion, or perhaps regiment, who haven't got frauleins + I know that for a long time they thought that Maria was our fraulein but now that everybody knows her, they realize that Irv + I aren't playing around - we are really "Odd fellows" in this outfit. I think that Col. Walker is the only other officer who hasn't a bed mate - These men talk about how they would like to go home but actually if we stayed here for 3 more years I don't think that it would make any difference to them as they are having the time of their life. When they return they have to assume responsibility again- settle down to the druggery of married life + a job of perhaps 20-30 a week - One of the officers, a Capt. approached me today + asked <pb> me if I could examine some girls he brought from Leonfelden for the officers to see if they were free of venereal disease - they look clean, he said, but he wanted to be sure. Can you imagine anything quite like it? And they wonder by the V. D. rate is so high - I have no use for any of these men but who cares what I think. You do, I know, darling, but you're not here. The more infidelity I see here, the more I realize how lucky we are that our love is so pure + deep. I feel sorry for these other unfortunates who obviously haven't found happiness in their marital life. I particularly feel sorry for the poor trusting wife these men left behind them. 

Before I forget, thank for the 3 lb. box of cookies. They are delicious + Irv, Rick + I have gone through most of them already. Another thing, I wasn't sure whether Granny's birthday is this month of not but I wrote to her earlier this evening + enclosed a $10.00 money order. Speaking of money, our financial status was an amazing revelation to me. I had no idea we were reaching such astronomical figures. Seriously though, it's a darn good start and we'll certainly need it through the lean days of my hospital work. Seems funny to hear that Mel is looking for an office now; Leo has been established for years now -- and I haven't even started to scrape the surface. If I were home  I would be starting my fourth year of internship + the end would be in sight - Now the one year of internship that I enjoyed is a faded memory - but I'm determined to continue my training, come hell or high water. 

Jack wrote his typical comical letter- said that he saw Helene + the Sherwoods on his visit to <pb> Boca Raton. Still is doing psychiatry + doubts if he will be sent overseas. He is trying to get a flight north so he can see Marty- Said Helene looked fine.

I understand that my name is next on the list among the medics for leave - If I'm still here in the next 2-3 weeks then I shall have a leave- where to I don't know- I'd sooner have a 3 day pass to Paris to see Myron Karlin but guess I'll take whatever comes my way.

Darling, it's getting late + I've been trying to write this letter for the past few hours but Irv + rick have engaged me in conversation frequent enough to interrupt any continuity of thought I may of had.

Send my love to Helene, Jim + It. Regards to Mr. + Mrs. F too. That's too bad that that Dr. in Florida messed up Mr. F. the first time- perhaps accounts for his sadness at present.

Goodnight, my women, I adore you + love you + wish my pen could express what my heart is saying. Just knowing that you + Pat are mine is enough to keep me happy although an ocean prevents us from enjoying that happiness to its fullest extent- but when we are together again, it will take more than an ocean to separate us-

<closing>All my love, always 

<signed> Hal</signed></closing>