---
layout: post
title: 1945-07-30
from: HK
to: LK
---
<dateline>Monday July 30, 1945</dateline>

<opener><persName>Len</persName> dear,</opener>

It's after 7 P.M. now and is rather lovely out. No mail has arrived as yet but there maybe some later. Today I moved again with Irv + Rick. Here's the story. As I told you we aren't allowed to live in private houses but all the officers went out and grabbed rooms for themselves so that they could bring there frauleins with them - Some have their frauleins living with them - Irv + I were the only officers living in a Gasthaus and as I described in a previous correspondence had a very nicely furnished room. There was but one drawback- or rather, a few- There was but one toilet and one bathroom (bath + shower) which was located on our floor. As a result there was a steady stream of traffic in the hallway. Another thing it's difficult, in not impossible, to have 25 men keep a toilet + bathroom clean. In addition a few of my men contracted some V. D. and although cured, I was skeptical about using the same toilet. Then again the men are very boisterous- hovwere, as noisy as they are I know that they felt inhibited or restrained at least because of my presence. So Irv + I looked around and found the Dr's home here in town, the most beautiful in town, and from which 3 officers just moved out who were with the outfit which preceded us. They have spacious grounds with sun chairs and at present Irv, Rick + I are sitting out here writing. We have a large bedroom with 3 big beds and an easy room to lounge in, write + listen to the radio. It's beautifully furnished + is so cheerful + bright. The Dr. + his wife seem to be very congenial + their son who is also a Dr. + his wife live here. They have a maid who will fix our room up and make hot water for our shower. Maria is staying at the Gasthaus which is only 2 minutes away and we shall eat our 3 meals there. It's a swell setup but there's a fly in the ointment- We saw Col. Walker tonight and he's trying to get a Gasthaus so all the officers can live in it and be centrally located. He's afraid of housing his officers spread out as they are and living in private homes - he's sticking his neck out too far- so if they should get the Gasthaus and make the officers move there, Irv, Rick + I shall move back to our own Gasthaus with the men 'cause it's the cleanest place in town. We know, cause we looked at every one before we moved it-

Last night, Irv, Rick + I sat around in our room and listened to the radio all night. Frank Smiles, my M Sc officer, is going to leave Aug. 2 for the 103rd Inf. Div. So he stayed at the Gasthause, figuring it was silly to move to the Dr.'s house for only a few days. He's a queer guy and he more we see of him, the more we appreciate + miss Bob de Redon.

Just received 2 wonderful letters from you postmarked 22+23rd July, one from Buddy Wolf and also one from Myron Karlin. Buddy says that his outfit may move to the vicinity of Vienna- he was quite fed up with his monotonous existence which he says is comparable to the one I lead here. Myron Karlin wrote a very nice letter- was surprised to hear from me, is very happy with his army work. He's an Agent of Military Government Service and has no rank. He's Mr. Mryon Karlin said that had he known of my wehereabouts before he could have taken airplane tripas to see me but at present is quite busy + consequently unable to. He relates that he has a nice home, jeep, and almost 100% freedom. He's very anxious for me to go to Paris and will really show me the sights. He sounds like the same swell kid I remember some 15 years ago and now I am very anxious to visit Paris. Prospects for a pass, however, look very poor indeed.

I'm gladd that you saw Dr. Schiller and he gave you the pills and serum for the dust. I do hope that you have no allergy attacks while in Florida- That was a good idea giving Bill Berenberg the whiskey- he's a nice chap and has been swell to take care of Pat. I know that she is in competent hands. The little devil - so she's fussy where she sits- won't go unless it's a toidy seat- I could squish her just listening to stories you tell about her. The twins must be enormous with all that weight - Pat sounds as though she's quite petite- I still think that she'll be tall though + agree that she's not very photogenic- I wish that you would put a tracer on that picture of you + Pat that you sent - I'm dying to see it- if you sent it 1st class mail, it should have arrived long time ago. 

I didn't find out any details today on where Major Gautsch + Dick Schley were transferred to yesterday but the 1st Sgt. from Reg't Aid Station was here this morning + told me what he knew. It seems that they called Major Sat. night + told him that they needed two medical officers including himself, for immediate transfer- The Major wanted me to go with him but couldn't contact me as we were the only Battalion that had moved at the time and had no communication with the remainder of the Regiment. As a result, he called Dick Schley, where Battalion was near the Major's and Dick went with him. I understand that Dick was furious- They went to a Replacement Depot near Paris. What exactly the deal is, I don't know- A replacement depot is a terrible

place to go to- You may sit for weeks or only a day waiting to be assigned to an outfit to fill in a vacancy- replace a missing medical officer. If lucky, it may result in an excellent assignment. However, there is a good chance of being assigned to an outfit headed direct for the CBI. May go with an outfit headed back to the states- the uncertainty is terrible + it's pot luck unless you know someone. So it's just by chance that I didn't leave yesterday. Who knows the Major + Schley may get a good break + be on their way home next month - then would I be sorry- But for all I know, I may have orders tomorrow. Now that the Major's gone + Pate's still on leave, tomorrow being pay day, I have to go to finance in Linz + pick up the pay for the whole Med. Det. and spend the entire day going to the different battalions + paying every man. Some fun, eh.

Enclosed are some more snaps. Hope you like them.

Goodnight, my loves. I love you + adore you + miss you more + more with each passing day. Have a swell time in Florida and send my love to Helene, Jim + it.

<closing>All my love, forever, + ever

<signed>Hal</signed></closing>

<postscript>Received the medical journals tonight too - Thanks darling. A million hugs + kisses.</postscript>
