---
layout: post
title: 
---
<opening><dateline>Friday Aug. 3, 1945</dateline>
<>Len</> dear,
<p>It's 8 P.M. here which means about 2 P.M. back in the states and I imagine at this writing you have flown over N.Y. and are on your way to Washington, D.C.- By 4 P.M., your time, you will be in Florida. I hope that noone has a priority along the way so you can fly all the way down. Do hope that the weather is good too - makes it so much more pleasant. I imagine that Helene + Jim are all excited about your visit + I can't say that I blame them. It would be nice if the pilot got lost and landed here at the Linz airport - I can dream, can't I?</p>
<p>Last night we spent quietly, per usual, listening to the radio and reading Time magazine. There was some good music + also Joan Davis + Jack Haley program. I don't know if you subscribed to Time magazine or not but I only received a few of them- Rick gets them any how- the Pony edition and it only takes 6 days to arrive so the news is recent. The Life magazine comes very irregularly + slowly.</p>
<p>Today was cloudy out + threatening all day. This afternoon we all went into Linz to see the baseball game between the 65th + the 71st- it promised to be a dandy + the weinnter of this game (American League) plays the winner of the National League of the 3rd Army for the Army championship- Then the winner of that series represents the 3rd Army for the ETO baseball championship. Sounds complicated + is - it's really an elimination tournament - Well we arrived at Linz to find the streets all wet and when we got to the baseball field, it was a sea of mud. Apparently they had quite a downpour, so the game was post- <pb>poned till Sunday. Naturally we couldn't waste an afternoon, (or could we) so we went to the movies + saw "My Pal Wolf"- a picture that Pat might have appreciated about a little girl + her dog. Speaking of pictures + entertainment calls to mind the furore that Frank Sinatra caused when he accused Special Service of doing such a poor job. Many jumped on him for sounding off without knowing about what he was talking - But the G.I.'s backed him 100%. He's absolutely right!! In 7 months overseas we haven't seen a U.S.O. show or a first class movies and many many outfits who have been overseas for a few years write similar complaints in the Stars + Stripes daily. I think that it will improve these coming months- I noticed that "information Phase" is coming to Linz next week, Bob Hope may come here, etc-</p>
<p>Tonight after supper I had to go to a nearby concentration camp that our battalion is guarding- It now contains the people who made their existence possible. German + Austrian civilians who were party members - They have over a 1000 prisoners including 4 doctors - The doctors were complaining about insufficient diet, sickness, lack of medicine, overcrowding, lice, etc. I have to see that they get sufficient medical supplies and make arrangements for all to be inoculated with typhus + typhoid serum - They complained that they had a flock of sick patients who regained immediate hospitalization + the Lt. in charge called me to investigate as he thought they were using illness as a pretense to get people out of the camp- They submitted a list of diagnoses which naturally the Lt. didn't<pb> understand- It gave me great pleasure to examine these patients, ask questions + then ask the doctors how they arrived at their fancy diagnoses without laboratory facilities- I really took them over the coals, as I do with the two doctors here that we are living with- The only language they understand is superiority- mentally socially or physically + as I feel my medical knowledge is superior to theirs, I criticize + degrade their medicine + tell them ow vastly superior ours is- which is undisputable- I may sound sadistic but I actually was pleased tonight to see these civilians complaining about their plight in the very concentration camps where they shackled so many thousands of innocent people- For the first time I've seem some semblance of justice- it helps, small as it may be, in an otherwise atmosphere of injustice-</p>
<p>Oh yes, I have a few complaints to register from Irv + Rick- Irv wants to know why you didn't send a 5 lb. box of cookies, instead of 3 lbs since you are alowed to send 5 lbs. Rick is angry because there were no chocolate cookies with vanilla fillings - Also wants to know why you had to buy cookies; haven't you time to do your own baking or are you unfaithful? But they both have enjoyed the cookies immensely though. </p>
<p>Just heard Duffy's Tavern + now Dinah Shore's program is on. I don't know if I mentioned it but it is rumored that we shall move nearer to Linz next week or soon thereafter. Col. Walker went to Regiment today as an Executive Officer- I didn't see him but guess I'll see him from <pb> time to time. </p>
<p>No mail today- maybe tomorrow-</p>
<p>Goodnight, my sweethearts. I hope that you had a pleasant trip.</p>
<p>Love to Helene, Jim + It.</p>
<p>All my love, forever + ever. I adore you + love you with all my heart + soul. A big hug + kiss for you and our darling Pat.<p>
<signed>Hal</signed> 