---
layout: post
title: 1945-08-02
from: HK
---
<opening><dateline>Thursday, Aug. 2, 1945</dateline>

<persName>Len</persName> dear,


I'm sitting in the backyard of our home writing as is Irv while the sun is still out - It's been cool today + is rather brisk at present but very comfortable + refreshing.

Last night after I wrote to you i was called to see one of my men who had imbibed a little in excess. His face looked like it had been through a meat grinder - multiple lacerations, abrasions, hematomas, etc. he looked cadaverous and several of his cronies were there sympathizing. I patched him up and sent him to bed. Occurences like this are so common that I don't bother writing about them but it often sets me in a pensive mood as to the horrors of war. physical injury is bad enough but there is always a possibility of complete recovery but morale injury, such as these men are experiencing, is irreparable. Most of these G. I.s are youngsters, perhaps adolescents when they entered the service but the metamorphosis to adulthood is occuring here in the army, many miles from home, in a most unhealthy medium. There is so much profanity in every day speech so much liquor available + so many loose women who can be had at the asking or without asking, and in the relatively short time we've been overseas I've seen many young, naive, cleancut boys led astray- men who never resorted to profanity, men who never drank before, and men who harbored nothing but clean thoughts about the opposite sex- is the side of war that's never revealed to the people but which is the most disheartening. When I returned from the aid station, Irv, Rick + I went to bed. Then someone got the bright idea that we ought to exercise so before we knew it we were betting one another as to how many push ups + situps we could do - had a lot of fun- I'm poor at pushups + Irv can't get his body of the floor to do situps - what a riot!! We decied that it will be a nightly ritual, that is <pb> exercises before going to bed.

This morning I attended my usual sick call + wrote a letter to Bob de Redon. This afternoon Irv + I went over to Regiment and chewed the fat with the new Capt. Welter by name- a very nice fellow of about 32-35 years of age. He's very comical + good company + I gather can hold quite a liberal amount of alcohol. He's not interested in doing a darn thing - has his 85 points and just intends to relax till he returns to the states. We returned in late afternoon + Irv + I unpacked our trunks + bags + hung up our clothing. Now it is rumored that in the next week we may move to another town near to Linz- This moving is disgusting- everybody is fed up anyway. Another thing- Col. Walker is leaving tomorrow- he's going to Regiment to be Executive Officer - he says he doesn't want to cause he'll be with COl. McGowan all day + that isn't pleasant. Another thing is Col. McGowan is a teetotaler- will that stymie Col. Walker, oh boy, oh boy!!

I received 2 wonderful letters from you today postmarked July 24 + July 26 as well as one from Kay- You had just entertained Bill, Elaine, Leo, Harriet, Mort, Stan + Julius Little as well as Jim + Elaine- what a gathering. from the four corners of the eart. I know, darling, what you mean. it seems unreal to me too to be here so many miles away - Yet I'm so glad that we have such wonderful friends and their presence helps alleviate your loneliness, I know. I knew that everybody would just love Pat- sounds like it's impossible to do anything else- What school is Bill going to- is he going to take a Bar Review. I knew<pb> that he would practice in N.Y. Incidentally, I'm anxious to write to Mort but don't know their new address + forget the address of his father's store- Also I haven't got Bill + Elaine's address either, in case I do land in N.Y. some day. Poor Jules, I hope that he doesn't have to go to the Pacific too. He's a pessimist by nature + I'll bet that he gets assigned to the states after all. 

They have written quite a bit about that foreign service in civilian status in the Stars + Stripes. I've paid very little attention to it as I personally had no interest but I gather that although it looks like a good position it will be a job which will keep a person overseas for many years. I think that Herb should investigate that point and if still willing to accept, then do so.

It seems funny that you are flying to Floria tomorrow and I have been addressing my letters to Florida already for the past 4-5 days. Yet by the time you receive this you will have been in Fla. for about 2 weeks. Seems funny to talk about events that haven't occurred yet as though they were past events but I hope, darling, that you have a wonderful trip tomorrow. I'll be thinking of you constantly and will be riding on the wing with you (look for me, I'll be on the right wing.) I'm so anxious to hear about Pat's reaction to the airplane trip. That was a wonderful letter Pat sent her daddy + he appreciates the sentiment expressed.

Actually, by time you receive this letter Junior may have made his debut- It would be coincidental should "it" be born on our anniversary- I was a real spender today. I bought some deer skin today as did Irv + Rick for $6.00. We're going <pb>
to have some deerskin shorts made from them- the natives all wear them here. they have a flap in the front + straps for the shoulders. <drawing!> - like that. With a tyrolean hate + you + Pat in tyrolean dresses we'd be sensations on Broadway. I gave Maria your measurements + she is going to try to get a tyrolean dress for you + one for Patti to match it. She wanted to make a dres or suit from the linen but I didn't know what you wanted + decided to keep the linen + try to take it home with me- I believe it best that way-

Well, darling. That's all the news for today-

Goodnight, my wonderful women. all the love in the world to best wife + daughter from the proudest husband + daddy-

Love to Helene + Jim + It.

<closer>All my love,
Hal </closer>
<postscript>
P.S. Did you send my old wristwatch yet? I'm lost without one.</postscript>