---
layout: post
title: 1945-07-08
from: HK
to: LK
---
<opening><dateline>Sunday July 8, 1945</dateline>

Len dear,

Another Sunday - another week and I'm no nearer knowing what my status is than I did a month ago - everything is still indefinite.

It was beautiful out today - one of those days when you thankful that you are alive even though you aren't as happy as you would be were you where you wanted to be - namely, home with you + Patti. As usual I stayed in bed late but didn't have the Sunday papers to read nor you or Pat to play with - 

This afternoon we decided that it was altogether to nice to stay indoors so Irv, Bob + I took the jeep and went to Linz - We thought that we would take in a matinee but there was no movies scheduled for today - We went to the Px but they have nothing that is worth while purchasing except toilet articles - everything is rationed. We then went out to the airport and there was nothing doing there - they have a medium bombardment base of B-26s out there now - so we came back home and on the way we met Julien who had some news - Dick Schley is not going to be transferred - instead Major Joseph Gautsch is leaving - for the 9th Infantry Division - So I told you there are 60 officers on the list to go to the 9th Inf. Division - they don't know how soon the transfer will be effective but it 
<pb>
should be in a week or so - If it goes through them the 65th will quite definitely be broken up- It's just a question of where I'll be sent sweating out a leave in the states first. Nobody has heard from Nelson Tyrone and we imagine that he is on his way home-

Today being Sunday no mail is devlivered so I'll have to be patient till tomorrow and hope for some mail from you - I imagine that I shall go deer hunting tonight - keeps me occupied and thus less time to dream about home and how I'd be spending the day with you + Pat.

Hello again- you guessed it, I just returned from hunting. We saw only one doe all night - this is a very slow season now and I think that I shall only go hunting a few times a week until the season starts, if I'm still here-
There's nothing new - absolutely not a thing to write about and I'm at a loss for words or news to convey - Some of the Majors + Cols. with over 85 points are being flown home this coming week- what a way to get home!!

What's new with Bob? Is he in a better frame of mind do you think? So glad that Florence is going to accompany Larry for a 2 weeks vacation - she, no doubt, needs it as much as he does- If I were 	to get home before Sept. I'd like to take you + Patti away for at least 2 weeks so we could be by our lonesome. The folks wouldn't like it, I know, but that wouldn't make any difference - When I get home I would like to spend every minute of the day, exclusively with you + Patti.
I don't know why but I'm very tired tonight so I guess I'll bring this to a close, read the daily army newspaper and off to bed.

Sorry this is so brief - wish I had more to write about.
Goodnight, my darlings, I love you with all my heart + soul + might.

<closing>Love to Nana, folks, Kay + Granny-

All my love</closing>

Hal